This is a defeat. I mean, I think there should be accountability. And if you,
and this could be a kind of opening for a kind of bipartisan conversation,
because if you are a kind of, um, American mil,
I mean,
you have to look at the leadership that got you to a place where you were
defeated by men wearing sandals, firing a K 47,
right?
Yeah. There should be a humility with that. Like the, I mean, yeah,
we should actually say that we like literally.
The, oh, we lost you say, you say we lost it. Wasn't just, you know, um.
The American military lost.
Yeah. And I, and I, and I feel I have very mixed feelings and, you know, it's,
I don't know a ton of veterans, but you know, I've mentioned,
I've taught my share and, um, have a student now and, you know,
they are they're suffering because they look at the sacrifices that they made
that I didn't make. I mean, American society to make the sacrifices. I mean,
men and women lost limbs, they lost eyes, they lost lives, you know, uh,
there's been this of course, quiet epidemic of suicide among,
among veterans. And I I've heard some stories.
The fact that the state department is seeing a similar surge of suicides cuz
they see their adult lives, work collapse. They've seen their relationships.
I mean, they've seen,
they've seeing phone calls in the middle of the night from people who they
entrusted with their lives, who, who they know are gonna be targeted. I mean,
some have already been killed. Um, they've seen the, I,
I mean I think just I'd imagine just ideologically and professionally what they
believed in and what they, what they sacrificed for, you know, has vanished.
Yeah. And I think that's a, that's that's bad. I mean,
historically thinking of some of the precedents you were know, I mean,
if you think of, you know, first of all, you know, at a human level,
I feel horrible for those people who, you know,
I may not have agreed with everything they had done and their choices in life,
but I respect the fact that many good people went out of, you know,
the best intentions as young people to, to,
to do the right thing and made things right.
And I respect that and I've met enough to know that there were people who
saw the gray in complexity and that that's, you know, all you can hope for. Um,
but we don't want a generation of disillusion veterans. Um, you know,
if we look at the other post-war moments and this is kind of a post-war moment
where, you know, I think we need a conversation with American veterans about,
about what they've gone through and what they're feeling and they have,
they still have skin in the game, you know,
because their personal connections and their in of their histories, they're.
Also gonna be future leaders. I mean, uh, veterans already. Yeah.
People who have served are often great men and women that's, that's true.
And, you know, throughout history,
whether you sacrifice,
you served in fighting world war II in fighting Vietnam,
that's going to mold you in different ways that those that's going to mold
how you are as a leader that leads this country forward. And, uh,
so you have to have an honest conversation about, um, what was, um,
the role of the war of Afghanistan, the war in the middle east,
the war on terror in the history of America.
If we just look at the full context at the end end of this 21st century,
how are we're going to remember this and how that's going to result in our
future interactions with small and large countries with China or some
proxy war with China, with Russia, or some proxy war with, uh, Russia,
what's the role of oil and natural resources and opium and all those kinds of
things. What's role of military power. Yeah. Uh, in the world.
And now with COVID, you know, it it's like, um,
it's almost like the,
because of the many failures of us government, uh,
and many leaders, uh, in, in science,
some politics to respond effectively and quickly to, uh,
to COVID we kind of forget that we fumbled this other thing too.
Yeah. And it's, it's hard to know which is going to be more expensive. Yeah. Uh,
but they, they seem to be symptoms of something of,
of the, a same kind of source problem, um,
of leadership of bureaucracy, of, of, uh,
the way information and intelligence flows throughout the us government,
all those kinds of things. Yeah.
And that hopefully motivates young leaders to fix things right.